## Day4! To make up for not doing questions on Wednesday due to flu

The first question is: 58. Length of Last Word

Given a string s consisting of words and spaces, return the length of the last word in the string.

A word is a maximal 
substring
 consisting of non-space characters only.

 

Example 1:

Input: s = "Hello World"
Output: 5
Explanation: The last word is "World" with length 5.
Example 2:

Input: s = "   fly me   to   the moon  "
Output: 4
Explanation: The last word is "moon" with length 4.
Example 3:

Input: s = "luffy is still joyboy"
Output: 6
Explanation: The last word is "joyboy" with length 6.

While, this is an easy question, we still have several ways to solve it. 
I will use the first one: 

Approach 1: String Index Manipulation
Intuition

There is no doubt that this is an easy problem. Yet, it could be a good exercise for one to practice string manipulation, which is definitely common during interviews.

In this article, we start with some approaches that manipulate string indexes, then we look at how to use the built-in string functions to solve the problem.

The intuition is simple, as it pretty much given away from the name of the problem, i.e. first we locate the last word, then we count the length of the last word.

One should pay attention to some edge cases though:

The input string could be empty.


There could be some trailing spaces in the input string, e.g. hello <space>.


There might only be one word in the given string.

The challenge is to build a concise yet comprehensive solution that could handle all above cases.

Algorithm

One can break down the solution into two steps:

First, we would try to locate the last word, starting from the end of the string. We iterate the string in reverse order, consuming the empty spaces. When we first come across a non-space character, we know that we are at the last character of the last word.
Second, once we locate the last word. We count its length, starting from its last character. Again, we could use a loop here.

Solution:
```
class Solution:
    def lengthOfLastWord(self, s: str) -> int:

        p = len(s) -1
        while p >= 0 and s[p] == ' ':
            p -= 1
        
        length = 0
        while p >= 0 and s[p] != ' ':
            p -=1
            length +=1
        return length
```


Now let's move on the second one: 28. Find the Index of the First Occurrence in a String

Given two strings needle and haystack, return the index of the first occurrence of needle in haystack, or -1 if needle is not part of haystack.

 

Example 1:

Input: haystack = "sadbutsad", needle = "sad"
Output: 0
Explanation: "sad" occurs at index 0 and 6.
The first occurrence is at index 0, so we return 0.
Example 2:

Input: haystack = "leetcode", needle = "leeto"
Output: -1
Explanation: "leeto" did not occur in "leetcode", so we return -1.

Just the brute force solution:

```
class Solution:
    def strStr(self, haystack: str, needle: str) -> int:
        m = len(needle)
        n = len(haystack)

        for window_start in range(n-m+1):
            for i in range(m):
                if needle[i] != haystack[window_start + i]:
                    break
                if i == m-1:
                    return window_start
        return -1
```

However there are lots of other way to solve this problem!  Make sure I will find out next time
